crochet techniques how to crochet the
magic circle ring to download a guide
with our five favorite tips to improve
your crochet skills right now visit new
stitch add a calm slash five crochet
tips for this tutorial you'll need the
following materials a crochet hook and a
ball of yarn special thanks to our
sponsor lion brand for providing today's
yarn today we are using their lion's
pride woolspun available exclusively at
michael's craft stores and lionbrand.com
in the color oxford gray the magic ring
or the magic circle is a method of
beginning your work in the round from
the center ok and you'll see this done
or it can be done in any pattern that
starts with some sort of ring you'll see
this happen sometimes in things like
grains squares or motifs and often this
is used for a megumi so if you're doing
little stuffed toys this is a great way
to start your project at the top and the
magic part I'll show you at the end of
this tutorial but let's show you how we
begin this Magic Circle or magic ring
alright so to begin the Magic Circle or
the magic ring we're going to take the
tail of our yarn and we're just going to
lay it over a few fingers I'm going to
take it and make sure that the front
part of the yarn is laying down on the
front of your palm okay so the end of
your tail and then I'm just going to
wrap the yarn around the first couple
fingers okay going towards you and then
over the top right so the working yarn
is going to be on the back of your hand
now for step two I'm going to enter my
hook underneath these two strands and
we're just going to yarn over our hook
okay and for step three we're going to
draw that yarn through the loop and then
we will for step four yarn over and
we're going to draw that yarn through
the loop as well okay so that's going to
start our ring alright so now we're just
going to basically single crochet into
the ring so I'm going to insert my hook
yarn over and draw through and then
we're going to yarn over move my hands
around here a little bit yarn over and
draw through the two loops that are on
my hook okay insert the hook into the
ring yarn over and draw through yarn
over and draw through the two loops okay
so we're just single crocheting into
that Center ring and you'll continue
doing your single crochets into that
Center ring until you've reached the
number of chain stitches that you need
or single crochet stitches that you need
to start your pattern
all right so I've done a few single
crochets here and I'm going to show you
what we do we're going to grab the tail
of our yarn once we've made all the
single crochets that we need for our
fabric and we're just going to pull this
tight okay like so I've got one two
three four five I'm going to do one more
real quick into that loop okay and we're
just going to pull this tight and that's
going to bring that bottom part all the
way around to the front okay so we've
created our ring at the center and then
I can just finish up this round by doing
a slip stitch into the first stitch the
first stitch is pretty tight there so
let's try not to split the yarn all
right yarn over draw through those two
stitches and there we go alright so then
we can continue working our round as we
would normally and that's how we do the
Magic Circle or the magic ring hey I'm
Johnny Vasquez founder of new such a day
and your teacher for this tutorial I
want to thank you so much for taking the
time to learn from us if you'd like to
see more videos just like this we
produce new content every single day
hence new decisions a day you can click
the subscribe button so that you don't
miss a single stitch and if you click
one of the links to the side here you
can see the previous stitch in our
series or the next stitch in our series
and if you click this link you'll be
able to see one of my favorites and
don't forget you can also download a PDF
with the written instructions for this
tutorial by clicking or using the URL
link that's on the screen
again I want to thank you so much for
learning with us and I hope that we've
helped make your knitting and crochet
skills a little bit better today you're
not
you